Space Combat Solo Play AI


This is an application that is intended to make it easier to play Space Fleet Combat tabletop games by yourself. It gives you a general outline of the enemy commander's personality and generates orders for each ship in the enemy fleet based on the status of the fleet each turn. It is not designed to a precise and ruthless opponent but more to provide guidance as to how ships might react in given situations. In the end it is still up to the player to decide what actions to take to best accomplish the given orders.

When using the app first select the type of mission you will be playing and the role the enemy will have in it. There are currently five mission types: Standard, Blockade, Ambush, Pursuit, and Hit & Run. The mission types are meant to be generalized variants and they each cause slight variations in the command profiles that are generated. Selecting the Standard mission type or the None enemy role will result in the widest range of possible command personalities.

After selecting the mission and role, click the Generate Profile button. This will create a profile explaining the general command personality of the commander, how the are viewed by their subordinates, and what the standing orders are for the fleet. This information is used to generate the overall command modifier that is used to help determine ship orders throughout the game. It is also meant to help the player better understand the enemy commander so that they can better roleplay as their opponent. Negative modifiers are more defensive while positive modifiers are more aggressive.

Next the player needs to determine how they want orders to be issued to the enemy fleet. By default orders are issued to all ships in the fleet individually. In order to do this the player must add the names of the ships in the enemy fleet. To do this simply type the name of a ship into the input box and click the Add button. A ship can be removed from the fleet roster in the same manner, just type the name and click the Remove button. This is useful for when a ship is destroyed or flees and no longer needs to be issued an order. To issue one order that applies to all ships in the fleet uncheck the box labeled Issue Individual Orders. 
